Question 3:
What evidence exists from dynamical modeling or observational studies to suggest
that Fomalhaut’s debris disc hosts primordial Pluto-like objects, and how do
their inferred orbital distributions compare to those in the early Solar System?

Answer:
### **Step-by-Step Analysis of the Research Question**  --- ### **1.
Understanding the Research Question** The question asks: **"What evidence exists
from dynamical modeling or observational studies to suggest that Fomalhaut’s
debris disc hosts primordial Pluto-like objects, and how do their inferred
orbital distributions compare to those in the early Solar System?"**  **Key
components to address:** - **Evidence for Pluto-like objects in Fomalhaut’s
disc** (from dynamical modeling or observations). - **Constraints on their size,
mass, and abundance** (e.g., primordial vs. recently formed). - **Comparison to
the early Solar System’s Pluto-like population** (e.g., Kuiper Belt objects). -
**Orbital distribution implications** (e.g., disc width, eccentricity, dynamical
stability).  --- ### **2. Reviewing and Summarizing Key Points from the
Context**  #### **Source 1: Dynamical Constraints on Disc Mass and Body Sizes**
- **Main finding:** Fomalhaut’s narrow debris disc **cannot be dominated by
primordial Pluto-sized objects** (radius ~1,188 km, ~0.18 *R*☉).   - If the disc
were dominated by Pluto-like bodies, **self-scattering** would broaden the disc
beyond observed limits.   - **Allowed size range for dominant bodies:**     -
**Upper limit:** Radii **< 300 ± 80 km** (~0.3 *R*Pluto).     - **Lower limit:**
Radii **> 5–20 km** (to avoid excessive collisional grinding).   - **Mass
constraint:** Each body must have **<1% of Pluto’s mass** (~1.3 × 10²² kg).   -
**Robustness:** Conclusions hold even with **shepherding planets** or
**collisional damping**.  #### **Source 2: Could a Single Pluto Be Hidden in the
Disc?** - **Hypothesis:** What if the disc is **dominated by smaller bodies**
but contains **one embedded Pluto**?   - **Equation (18):** Shows how disc width
(*w*) changes when a large body (*M*) is added to a disc of smaller bodies
(*m*).   - **Finding:** A **single Pluto** could exist without significantly
broadening the disc (**width increase <1.5×**) if:     - For a **10 *M*⊕ disc**,
smaller bodies have **radii >100 km**.     - For a **1,000 *M*⊕ disc**, smaller
bodies have **radii >20 km**.   - **Implication:** While the disc **cannot be
dominated by Plutos**, **a few could be hidden** among smaller bodies.  ####
**Source 3: Observational Context of Fomalhaut’s Disc** - **System properties:**
- **Star:** Fomalhaut A (A3V, ~440 Myr, 7.7 pc).   - **Debris disc:**     -
**Narrow** (well-resolved by HST, ALMA, JWST).     - **Moderate eccentricity
(~0.1)**.     - **Mass constraints:** Must avoid self-broadening. - **Key
constraint:** If the disc had **too many large bodies (Pluto-sized)**, it would
**scatter into a broader ring** (contradicting observations).  #### **Source 4:
Numerical Simulations (N-body vs. Tree Gravity)** - **Method:** Compares
**direct N-body** and **tree-gravity** simulations of Fomalhaut’s disc. -
**Result:**   - Both methods agree: **Disc broadening occurs only for masses >10
*M*⊕**.   - **Below 10 *M*⊕**, the disc remains narrow (consistent with
observations). - **Implication:** Supports the **upper mass limit** for the
disc.  #### **Source 5: Broader Implications for Debris Disc Masses** -
**General trend:** Bright debris discs (like Fomalhaut’s) **cannot have high
masses** if dominated by large bodies. - **Alternative explanations:**   -
**Shepherding planets** (unlikely per Source 7).   - **Recent formation of
Plutos** (not primordial). - **Conclusion:** **Primordial Plutos are
disfavored**; any Plutos must have formed **late** or be **rare**.  ####
**Source 6: Collisional Evolution Constraints** - **Lower mass bound:** Disc
mass must exceed **observed dust mass (~0.015 *M*⊕)** but also satisfy
**collisional cascade models**. - **Collisional grinding:** If the disc were too
massive, **large bodies
