Question 1:
What are the key morphological and compositional differences between Fomalhaut’s
debris disc and the Kuiper Belt, and how do these differences inform hypotheses
about the formation of primordial Pluto-like objects in each system?

Answer:
### **Step-by-Step Analysis of the Research Question**  ---  ### **1.
Understanding the Research Question** The question asks: **"What are the key
morphological and compositional differences between Fomalhaut’s debris disc and
the Kuiper Belt, and how do these differences inform hypotheses about the
formation of primordial Pluto-like objects in each system?"**  **Key
Components:** - **Morphological differences**: Structural/physical differences
(e.g., width, eccentricity, spatial distribution). - **Compositional
differences**: Differences in the size distribution and mass dominance of
objects (e.g., dust vs. planetesimals vs. Pluto-sized bodies). - **Formation
hypotheses**: How these differences constrain theories about the formation of
Pluto-like objects (primordial vs. dynamically evolved).  ---  ### **2.
Extracting and Summarizing Key Information from the Papers**  #### **A. General
Context on Debris Discs (Sources 1, 7)** - Debris discs are circumstellar
populations of **planetesimals and dust**, analogous to the **Kuiper Belt (KB)**
and asteroid belt. - Dust is short-lived (~fraction of the star’s age) and must
be **replenished by collisions** of larger bodies. - **Direct detection of large
planetesimals is impossible**—current instruments only detect dust (< few cm). -
**Mass estimation problem**:   - Observed dust mass (~10⁻² to 10⁻¹ M⊕) is
extrapolated to larger bodies using theoretical size distributions (e.g.,
Dohnanyi 1969).   - **Uncertainties**:     1. Unknown maximum size of debris
bodies.     2. Unknown shape of the size distribution (small deviations → huge
mass errors).   - **Debris disc mass problem**: If largest bodies are **hundreds
to thousands of km** (like the KB), many bright discs would require **>1000
M⊕**, which is unrealistic.  #### **B. Fomalhaut’s Debris Disc (Sources 2, 6,
8)** - **Morphology**:   - **Narrow, well-resolved ring** (unlike the KB, which
is broader).   - Moderate global eccentricity (~0.1).   - Observed by **HST,
ALMA, JWST** (high-resolution imaging). - **Compositional Constraints**:   -
**Cannot be dominated by primordial Plutos** (R ≈ 1000 km, ~0.1 M⊕).     - If it
were, **self-scattering** would broaden the disc beyond observed limits.   -
**Mass must be dominated by smaller bodies**:     - **Radii between ~5–300 km**
(0.005–0.3 R_Pluto).     - Each body has **<1% Pluto’s mass**.   - **A single
Pluto could be hidden** in the disc if:     - The rest of the mass is in bodies
**>20–100 km** (depending on total disc mass).     - Multiple Plutos would
**broaden the disc further** (due to mutual scattering). - **Dynamical
Constraints**:   - **Self-stirring**: Larger bodies stir smaller ones,
increasing collision rates.   - **Gas drag** (Source 5) could prevent spreading,
but this is speculative.   - **Shepherding planets** (e.g., Fomalhaut b) may
confine the disc, but the narrowness still requires small dominant bodies.  ####
**C. Kuiper Belt Comparison (Implicit in Sources 2, 3, 5)** - **Morphology**:
- **Broader and more diffuse** than Fomalhaut’s disc.   - Contains **Pluto-sized
and larger objects** (e.g., Eris, Haumea). - **Composition**:   - **Mass
dominated by large bodies** (100–1000 km).   - **Primordial slope in size
distribution** (power-law from dust to dwarf planets). - **Formation
Hypotheses**:   - **Primordial formation**: Large bodies formed early and
survived.   - **Ongoing growth**: Some large bodies may still be accreting
(Source 5).   - **Collisional cascade**: Smaller bodies are ground down over
time.  #### **D. Key Differences and Implications (Sources 2, 4, 5)** | Feature
| **Fomalhaut’s Debris Disc**                          | **Kuiper Belt**
| |-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------
|------------------------------------------------------| | **Width**
| Extremely narrow (confined)                        | Broader, more diffuse
| | **Dominant Mass
